ext/sst/INSTALL.md, before:

# Installing SST

The links to download SST source code are available here
[http://sst-simulator.org/SSTPages/SSTMainDownloads/].
This guide is using the most recent SST version (11.0.0) as of September 2021.
The following guide assumes `$SST_CORE_HOME` as the location where SST will be
installed.

## SST-Core

### Downloading the SST-Core Source Code

```sh
wget https://github.com/sstsimulator/sst-core/releases/download/v11.1.0_Final/sstcore-11.1.0.tar.gz
tar xf sstcore-11.1.0.tar.gz
```

### Installing SST-Core

```sh
cd sstcore-11.1.0
./configure --prefix=$SST_CORE_HOME --with-python=/usr/bin/python3-config \
            --disable-mpi # optional, used when MPI is not available.
make all -j$(nproc)
make install
```

Update `PATH`,

```sh
export PATH=$SST_CORE_HOME/bin:$PATH
```

## SST-Elements

### Downloading the SST-Elements Source Code

```sh
wget https://github.com/sstsimulator/sst-elements/releases/download/v11.1.0_Final/sstelements-11.1.0.tar.gz
tar xf sstelements-11.1.0.tar.gz
```

### Installing SST-Elements

```sh
cd sst-elements-library-11.1.0
./configure --prefix=$SST_CORE_HOME --with-python=/usr/bin/python3-config \
            --with-sst-core=$SST_CORE_HOME
make all -j$(nproc)
make install
```

Adding `PKG_CONFIG_PATH` to `.bashrc` (so pkg-config can find SST .pc file),

```sh
echo "export PKG_CONFIG_PATH=$PKG_CONFIG_PATH:$SST_CORE_HOME/lib/pkgconfig/" >> ~/.bashrc
```

### Building gem5 library

At the root of gem5 folder,

```sh
scons build/RISCV/libgem5_opt.so -j $(nproc) --without-tcmalloc --duplicate-sources
```

**Note:** `--without-tcmalloc` is required to avoid a conflict with SST's malloc.
`--duplicate-sources` is required as the compilation of SST depends on sources to be present in the "build" directory.

### Compiling the SST integration

At the root of gem5 folder,

```sh
cd ext/sst
make
```

### Running an example simulation

See `README.md`

Commit message:

ext: Updated the gem5 SST Bridge to use SST 13.0.0
This change updates the gem5 SST Bridge to use SST 13.0.0. Changes
are made to replace SimpleMem class to StandardMem class as
SimpleMem will be deprecated in SST 14 and above. In addition, the
translator.hh is updated to translate more types of gem5 packets.
A new parameter `ports` was added on SST's side when invoking the
gem5 component which does not require recompiling the gem5
component whenever a new outgoing bridge is added in a gem5 config.

Signed-off-by: Kaustav Goswami <kggoswami@ucdavis.edu>

ext/sst/INSTALL.md, after:

# Installing SST

The links to download SST source code are available at
<http://sst-simulator.org/SSTPages/SSTMainDownloads/>.
This guide is using the most recent SST version (13.0.0) as of September 2023.
The following guide assumes `$SST_CORE_HOME` as the location where SST will be
installed.

## SST-Core

### Downloading the SST-Core Source Code

```sh
wget https://github.com/sstsimulator/sst-core/releases/download/v13.0.0_Final/sstcore-13.0.0.tar.gz
tar xvf sstcore-13.0.0.tar.gz
```

### Installing SST-Core

```sh
cd sstcore-13.0.0
./configure --prefix=$SST_CORE_HOME --with-python=/usr/bin/python3-config \
            --disable-mpi # optional, used when MPI is not available.
make all -j$(nproc)
make install
```

Update `PATH`,

```sh
export PATH=$SST_CORE_HOME/bin:$PATH
```

## SST-Elements

### Downloading the SST-Elements Source Code

```sh
wget https://github.com/sstsimulator/sst-elements/releases/download/v13.0.0_Final/sstelements-13.0.0.tar.gz
tar xvf sstelements-13.0.0.tar.gz
```

### Installing SST-Elements

```sh
cd sst-elements-library-13.0.0
./configure --prefix=$SST_CORE_HOME --with-python=/usr/bin/python3-config \
            --with-sst-core=$SST_CORE_HOME
make all -j$(nproc)
make install
```

Adding `PKG_CONFIG_PATH` to `.bashrc` (so pkg-config can find SST .pc file),

```sh
echo "export PKG_CONFIG_PATH=$PKG_CONFIG_PATH:$SST_CORE_HOME/lib/pkgconfig/" >> ~/.bashrc
```

### Building gem5 library

At the root of the gem5 folder, you need to compile gem5 as a library. This
varies which OS you use. If you're using Linux, then type the following:
```sh
scons build/RISCV/libgem5_opt.so -j $(nproc) --without-tcmalloc --duplicate-sources
```
In case you're using Mac, then type the following:
```sh
scons build/RISCV/libgem5_opt.dylib -j $(nproc) --without-tcmalloc --duplicate-sources
```

**Note:**
* `--without-tcmalloc` is required to avoid a conflict with SST's malloc.
* `--duplicate-sources` is required as the compilation of SST depends on sources to be present in the "build" directory.
* The Mac version was tested on a Macbook Air with M2 processor.

### Compiling the SST integration

Go to the SST directory in the gem5 repo.
```sh
cd ext/sst
```
According to the OS that you're using, you need to rename the `Makefile.xxx` to `Makefile`.
```sh
cp Makefile.xxx Makefile    # linux or mac
make -j4
```
Change `ARCH=RISCV` to `ARCH=ARM` in the `Makefile` in case you're compiling
for ARM.
### Running an example simulation

See `README.md`
